Let's do some experimental stuff experimental browser stuff. That's actually probably even more dangerous
So everything that I just taught you a hundred percent of it applicable today
You know go forth to your companies and use everything that I just taught you about b-test
This is all tried-and-true science so far. I'm going to show you what's what's coming next
And I almost talked to this to you as like that the way to go no matter what
But it's just not stable enough for me to recommend yet, so I'm not going to
But it's it's soon the answer is soon. This will be stable enough for you to do so I want you to know about it
so come into your
Project and we're going to do npm install dash capital D at V test slash browser at
2.1 point three
We're going to need playwright
Which is a Microsoft thing?
If you've heard of puppeteer. This is kind of a spiritual successor to puppeteer. It's literally the same person
Pavel
He created puppeteer at Google and then Microsoft stole him and then he created playwright at Microsoft
So he was just kind of continuing on the line of work
V test dash browser
Dash react and you can see how experimental this is it's zero point zero point one so it is
experimental and not done yet
So I'll also say like this this one is in particular liable to be broken by the time that you run this because they'll
Probably have changed this several times
So you might need to debug this a little bit
Okay, so we have that we now have to go and create a V test config file
So we're going to create a new file, we're going to call it V test dot config dot JS
We're going to import
define workspace define workspace
from V test config dot JS we're kind of
Hacking around a little bit there you can leave the dot.js. It doesn't have to be there either way
Workspaces that is actually for mono repos
So if you have like seven packages in one repo you can define different V test
workspaces for each one of them
That's the point of define workspace, but we're going to use it to define a
Happy DOM environment for our old tests and a playwright environment for our new tests because I don't want to rewrite our old test
If they're still good, right?
So we're going to export default
define workspace
And it's going to be an array and we're going to give it two different you're basically two different config files here
So the first one we're going to make sure you have extends dot slash VEAT dot config dot
So the first one we're going to make sure you have extends dot slash VEAT dot config
Dot JS
And
test
So basically this is saying bring everything in from this file here my VEAT file and i'm going to just overwrite the test part of it
And we're going to say include
We only want to test files that have
Dot node dot test dot js or jsx either one of those
Okay, these ones are all going to be run in the happy dom environment
So we're going to say name
Call them happy dom
And environment we're going to set to be happy dom
So basically all of our existing tests we want to run in happy dom
And we're going to have to go rename all of them to have dot node in the title
That's why I said later that the name of this one's going to get even more ridiculous because it's going to have to be
Contact dot lazy dot node dot test dot jsx
I
It's both absurd but I also I can't really do anything about it like it does have to kind of be that way
So that's fine. And then we're going to have a new one. We're going to write new tests with
and that is going to be
Extends again
Extends, I guess we don't need the quotes extends
same thing
VEAT config dot JS
Test
Okay, and this one has a little bit more involved setup it's going to have some setup files
This is just things that get run before your tests get run and we're going to put vitest
Browser react. We're going to make sure that that gets run before our tests get run
We're going to include anything that we include browser in the test
so
The other thing instead of doing uh dot node or dot browser
We could have just put them in separate directories. That would have been fine as well
um
That's totally up to you
I think this just made me laugh and so I kept doing it
Chaos driven development if you will name we're going to call this browser
The reason why we're putting the name here is so that like when we're looking at our test
It'll it'll actually give you a little label. It says like this was run in the browser
This is run in happy dom and it makes it easy to tell at a glance
Browser and we're going to say provider
Uh provider
And your two choices are playwright, which I strongly suggest you go with. I think you can also use
Webdriver, which is selenium same thing
Enabled true
And name
Here you can put what browser you would like to test in
I i'm going to test on firefox, but feel free to put
Uh chromium can go there or webkit if you're on
Uh mac os
But if you want to test in in chrome you put chromium here
I think you can put edge there. Maybe it's
Don't quote me on that one. Anyway firefox. That's what i'm putting there. All right, so let's go rename these
So that they have node dot node contact
Dot node
Nope, not there and it sucks, but unfortunately the order is important
Node so contact dot lazy dot node dot test dot jsx
And pizza of the day i'm going to put this
And those are all of our node tests
Oh, and if I remember correctly, yeah, so cart one this actually um can be run in the browser because
Uh playwright already does snapshot testing. So this actually will run in either one of them
And so we might as well just throw this into our browser environment. So rather than cart dot node, we're going to do cart dot browser
These other ones actually depend on the fact that we're in happy dom
And they could be rewritten to work with uh the browser
I just don't want to make you do that because I don't think that's a useful exercise for you right now
But we are going to create another pizza test so we're going to create pizza dot browser
And we're going to do that
So
All right, let's go write our test. So in pizza dot browser dot test
dot jsx import
render from
And we're going to get it from vitest browser react. So this library aims to mimic testing library
so we actually don't need testing library at all
in
The browser-based environment because vitest browser react does all of the things that testing library would do for us
It aims to be mostly api compliant. So
Uh, if you have questions about it, just go look at the testing library docs. It's usually the same thing
Okay expect and test
From vitest import pizza from
Source slash pizza. Oh capital p pizza
Okay, we're going to test alt text renders
on
Image and so we're going to test the same thing, but we're going to do it in a browser browser-based environment
The test is going to end up looking pretty similar
Const name equals my favorite pizza
Const source equals
Our nice looking picture there pick some
photo slash 200
And const screen equals render
Pizza name equals name source equals source
And oh, it's not source. It's image. Sorry image equals source and description
Equals cool browser stuff close your tag there
And we're going to say const image equals await
screen
Dot get by role
And the matches end up looking a little bit different we have to use this expect element thing
We'll say const or await
Expect element
Image to be in the document
image
So we expect it to render an image at all, right?
let's just
Make two of these here
And we're going to say to have attribute
Source source
And to have attribute alt
Name
So if you're looking at this is like this looks pretty similar right like and not totally the same
Like just to put them side by side just for a second
Um
See the screen here screen here
And this this one you're just able to just like do these like synchronous checks right because it's just really reading text out of a document
This is the whole browser this is actually going into firefox grabbing this out of the don that's we have to await stuff
Because it is it's truly asynchronous. It's really in a browser
I think you're gonna have to do something like npx playwright install if you've never run playwright before let's just
I'm gonna run it and see what happens. I've done this before so it might
Yeah, I think it's just gonna exit for me for the rest of you
It's probably gonna say like do you want to install like 300 megs of stuff? Is that working for people?
Okay, cool
That was from memory. So I'm just was worried. I was giving you the wrong command
What it's doing it's going to actually install mini versions of firefox mini versions of chromium and a mini version of webkit
Okay
So now you should be able to run npm run test and it should pop up a browser or it should fail miserably
Really
Failed to load config
I have one question that we maybe skipped a step a little bit earlier
But there was a step to remove things from the vt.config.js. Oh, yeah, you're absolutely right
I tried messing around with that, but i'm still getting that error personally right now. So I don't okay
No, you're right. You do have to delete this stuff out of your config here because we put it in our vitest stuff
So I had called this
vitest.config.workspace
Which technically is a valid thing to call it, but it's only for one project
I was explaining to you earlier like we're technically abusing a tool to define it for multiple projects so we can take care of a
Browser based environment and a node based environment and in the docs they recommend like oh we already have that for workspaces
So we're doing it that way
But the big thing here is make sure it's vitest.workspace.js
Workspace.js and that'll fix our problem here
It's kind of silly to me that that's not the same thing but
I don't know. I'm not the one writing the open source software
All right
So you do all this and this notice that i'm popped up. I have another window here from nightly
So this is actually downloading firefox nightly to run this right? That's why it's called nightly
I
Have an error here in my test. Let's go figure out what's going on with that
failed to resolve import source/pizza
So i'm in
Pizza.browser.test.jsx pizza from source pizza. It seems like that should be correct
So yes dot dot slash. That was no source there
And now we have a
Test running in our browser, which is kind of cool, right?
So
This should be able to refresh and notice
This should feel familiar right the same ui right but there's actually something kind of cool about this if you come into your
browser tests
Um, I will say that this breaks constantly and it's like it will freeze and so just a good refresh usually does it
Yeah, so stuff like this
So you can actually see the component being rendered on the page
You're gonna include the css and all the stuff and make it look really nice
We're not doing enough stuff and i'm not super worried about it at the moment
um
That's too bad that the image is not working
But the image should work there as well
uh pizza.jsx
Did I misspell it
Photos pick some dot photos
Photos
And then now if we go back to our ui here or this one yeah, and then you'll see that actually renders out the image as well
Kind of ends up being like a
A little bit of a storybook kind of thing where you can kind of like show off all of your components in an individual kind
Of way using tests, which is kind of cool as well